Review Article
International Journal of Engineering
Business Management
Volume 15: 1–15
© The Author(s) 2023
Article reuse guidelines:
sagepub.com/journals-permissions
DOI: 10.1177/18479790231222349
journals.sagepub.com/home/enb
When text mining meets science mapping in
the bibliometric analysis: A review and
future opportunities
Haojing Chen1, YP Tsang1 and CH Wu2
Abstract
The increasing volume of scientiﬁc publications has created a need for more efﬁcient and effective literature review
processes. Bibliometric analysis is a quantitative approach to analysing bibliographic data extracted from research studies to
identify publishing patterns and trends within speciﬁc knowledge domains. Science mapping is a widespread technique in
bibliometric analysis that enables researchers to reveal the structure of their respective ﬁelds and identify dominant
themes. However, there is still a lack of clarity and transparency in describing the science mapping process, which can
hinder continued reﬁnement and improvement of this critical ﬁeld of research. This study provides a comprehensive
overview of science mapping in bibliometric analysis based on published review studies from prestigious international
journals. It outlines the science mapping mechanism and explores challenges and opportunities, focusing on incorporating
text mining approaches to support the analytical literature review process. The study sheds light on previously unexplored
mechanisms in the literature of bibliometric analysis, revealing gaps in existing research. The study contributes to the
growing body of research on bibliometric analysis by highlighting the need for continuous improvement and the de-
ployment of text mining techniques to support the analysis of scientiﬁc publication data. This study offers valuable insights
for researchers, policymakers, and practitioners seeking to enhance their understanding of science mapping and bib-
liometric analysis.
Keywords
Bibliometric analysis, text mining, science mapping, analytical literature review, systematic review
Date received: 1 October 2023; accepted: 4 December 2023
Introduction
As science continues to evolve, research ﬁelds have entered
the era of massive data and are growing rapidly. Data
collected until the end of 2021 in the Scopus database reveal
that scholar categories are classiﬁed into 22 scientiﬁc ﬁelds
and 174 sub-ﬁelds within 2022, while more than 10 million
researchers are included for the evaluation.1 In other words,
the number of scientiﬁc research publications per year is
substantially increasing, which drives the need to revamp
the existing literature review process. Owing to the pro-
gressive expansion of scientiﬁc advancement in numerous
domains, there are more intersections across research
themes, resulting in the rapid evolution of academic
research. From handwriting or typewriting to electronic
Creative Commons CC BY: This article is distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 License
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/) which permits any use, reproduction and distribution of the work without
further permission provided the original work is attributed as speciﬁed on the SAGE and Open Access pages (https://us.sagepub.com/
en-us/nam/open-access-at-sage).
1Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, The Hong Kong
Polytechnic University, Hung Hom, Hong Kong SAR
2Department of Supply Chain and Information Management, The Hang Seng
University of Hong Kong, Shatin, Hong Kong SAR
Corresponding author:
CH Wu, Department of Supply Chain and Information Management, The
Hang Seng University of Hong Kong, 6/F, Block D, Siu Lek Yuen, Shatin,
Hong Kong SAR.
Email: jackwu@ieee.org

copies, we are now at the point of creating publications’
ﬁngerprints in digital scientiﬁc platforms, such as the Web
of Science (WoS). In addition to the research content, the
related publication data, for example, sources, organisa-
tions, cited references and citation frequencies, are elec-
tronically retained. The era of ‘Research 4.0’ is thus
characterised by enabling rich scientiﬁc data for investi-
gation. Still, the systematic approach to analysing the sci-
entiﬁc publication data for supporting the literature review
and survey is much more challenging.
To tackle the above challenge, knowledge management
(KM) in scientiﬁc research has emerged to use statistical
methods and processes to coordinate and leverage the cu-
mulative knowledge generated by research activities to
promote sustainability and respond to changes in the
research environment.2,3 Knowledge management (KM) is
pivotal in scientiﬁc research, serving as the foundation for
the systematic process of capturing, distributing, and ef-
fectively using knowledge to foster innovation and col-
laboration. The essence of KM lies in its ability to transform
raw data and empirical observations into accessible and
actionable insights, which is critical in the fast-paced and
ever-evolving landscape of scientiﬁc inquiry. Within this
context, bibliometric analysis emerges as a powerful tool,
offering a quantitative approach to examining scientiﬁc
literature. And it has signiﬁcantly contributed to research
advancement across various ﬁelds. Bibliometrics is a
quantitative approach involving analysing bibliographic
data extracted from research studies to study publishing
patterns and trends of a speciﬁc knowledge domain.4 Using
bibliometric analysis enables researchers to reveal the
structure of their respective ﬁelds and identify dominant
themes.5
Science mapping methods in bibliometric analysis has
gained popularity over the past decade. However, there is
still a lack of a comprehensive overview of the current
status quo of these methods. While several software
packages and algorithms are available for conducting
science mapping, there is a need for greater clarity and
transparency in describing the scientiﬁc mapping process
to allow for continued reﬁnement and improvement of this
critical ﬁeld of research. Text mining has emerged as a
knowledge-intensive approach that utilises various ana-
lytical
techniques,
including
information
extraction,
summarisation, topic modeling, document clustering, and
sentiment analysis, to achieve a more comprehensive and
in-depth analysis of a particular ﬁeld of research. Text
mining is a sophisticated analytical process applied in
various ﬁelds, incorporating advanced concepts such as
machine learning. In this context, incorporating text
mining approaches into the science mapping should be
considered to strengthen objectivity when interpreting the
science mapping results and enable the analytical literature
review process.
This study aims to provide an overview of the science
mapping in bibliometric analysis based on the published
review studies from prestigious international journals. Once
the literature survey of the bibliometric analysis is com-
pleted, the science mapping mechanism is outlined with the
exploration of challenges and opportunities. Lastly, the
possibility of incorporating text mining approaches in the
science mapping mechanism is discovered to drive the next-
generation science mapping process.
This study presents a comprehensive overview of the use
of science mapping in bibliometric analysis across various
disciplines, highlighting the ﬁeld’s current state, the chal-
lenges faced, and the opportunities for future research. The
study sheds light on previously unexplored mechanisms in
the literature of bibliometric analysis, revealing gaps in
existing research. In light of the challenges and opportu-
nities identiﬁed, the deployment of text mining techniques
has been discussed to support the bibliometric analysis,
resulting in a more nuanced understanding of science
mapping. Therefore, this study serves as a valuable con-
tribution to the growing body of research on bibliometric
analysis and highlights the need for continuous improve-
ments in this research ﬁeld.
The remainder of this paper is organised as follows. The
second section describes the review methodology to outline
the systematic approach to identifying high-quality articles.
The third section summarises the theoretical and technical
background of the bibliometric analysis, while the recent
advances in text mining for the bibliometric analysis are
discussed in the fourth section. The ﬁfth section presents
future research directions in the context of bibliometric
analysis when the text mining algorithms are considered.
Finally, the last section summarises the conclusions of this
study.
Review methodology
This section delineates the methodology employed for con-
ducting a literature survey, including the deﬁnition of terms
and resources used in the literature search and the criteria for
selecting and assimilating articles from the initial search result.
The literature review is typically conducted in a stepwise cycle
to obtain a holistic understanding of the bibliometric analysis,
which includes the identiﬁcation of relevant search keywords,
article search, and analysis. The Web of Science (WoS) Core
Collection contains curated and consistently indexed material
that is uniquely selective and reliable for bibliometric analysis,
owing to its unparalleled data structure and independent and
rigorous auditing process, which has been in place for over ﬁve
decades.6 Besides, WoS covers a wide range of disciplines and
includes a variety of document types, such as articles, con-
ference proceedings, and book chapters, which can ultimately
provide a comprehensive view of the scholarly landscape. The
study establishes a rigorous review protocol tailored to identify
2
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

high-calibre bibliometric research, utilising a precise combi-
nation of databases, keywords, publication types, and ranking
criteria, resulting in a distilled collection of 37 seminal papers
from an initial set of 7404. This methodology underscores the
widespread adoption of bibliometric analysis across presti-
gious journals, with an uptrend in application noted in recent
years, particularly in leading publications ranked in JCR Q1, A
or above in ABDC and 3* or above in AJG. A systematic
review protocol to collect high-quality bibliometric research
studies is thus developed in the following.
Review protocol
To search for high-quality studies related to the biblio-
metric analysis, the review protocol with ﬁve areas, in-
cluding scientiﬁc database, keywords, publication type,
publication year, and suitability criteria, is proposed in
Table 1. Only the article and review articles are con-
sidered once the keywords are applied in the WoS Core
Collection. In contrast, the extracted articles should be
relevant to using bibliometric analysis in a speciﬁc
research domain. From the initial search process, a total
of 7404 studies were found in the scientiﬁc database. Due
to the vast number of publications and the purpose of
high-quality concentration, the initial search is reﬁned by
‘Highly Cited Papers,’ which narrows the 7404 papers to
131. Leading journals are selected based on their proven
capability and expertise in absorbing prominent articles
in their respective ﬁelds to present a more representative
and mainstream picture. A combination of three inclusion
and exclusion criteria were applied to select 19 journals
for review, namely Q1 in the Journal Citation Report
(JCR) Impact Factor 2021,7 A/A* in the Australian
Business Deans Council (ABDC) 2019 list of journals,8
and 3/4/4* in the Academic Journal Guide (AJG) of the
Association
of
Business
Schools
(ABS)
2021.9
Consequently, 37 relevant studies are extracted for the
detailed investigation in the following sections.
Distribution of the selected papers
In the past decades, 37 research and review articles, as in
Appendix A, applied the bibliometric analysis to analyse
and summarise the intellectual development of the speciﬁc
research domains. At the same time, 19 prestige journals are
considered as in Figure 1. It is found that 7 studies related to
the use of bibliometric analysis are published in Techno-
logical Forecasting and Social Change. In comparison, 12
studies are evenly published in the International Journal of
Production Research and the International Journal of Pro-
duction Economics and Research Policy. In other words, the
methodology of the bibliometric analysis is widely accepted
and applied to summarise and visualise the development of
intellectual cores. In addition, the number of selected papers
over the years is shown in Figure 2, where the applications
of bibliometric analysis become more popularised in recent
years. On average, ﬁve high-quality articles have been
published in the above prestige journals over the last
5 years.
Theoretical and technical background of
bibliometric analysis
Bibliometric analysis typically encompasses two categories:
(i) selection of bibliometric data and (ii) science mapping.
The selection of bibliometric data involves the extraction of
publication ﬁngerprints about research constituents, such as
information on authors, countries and citation counts. At the
same time, science mapping examines the contribution and
relationships between research constituents based on the
analysis of bibliometric data.5 Science mapping pertains to
intellectual interactions and structural connections among
Table 1. Review protocol for the bibliometric analysis.
Area
Description
Scientiﬁc
database
Web of science (WoS) core collection
Keywords
[(“Review”) AND (“bibliometric analysis” OR “bibliometrics” OR “co-citation” OR “bibliographic coupling” OR “co-
word” OR “co-authorship")] in topica
Publication type
Article and review article
Publication year
From 2012 to 2023 (until 9 Oct 2023)
Suitability criteria • Relevance to the deployment of the bibliometric analysis in a speciﬁc domain
• Classiﬁcation in ‘highly cited papers’
• Journals indexed as Q1 in journal citation report (JCR), A/A* in the australian business deans council (ABDC)
journal list, and 3/4/4* in academic journal guide (AJG)
Remark: ahttps://www.webofscience.com/wos/woscc/summary/377e3cb9-25ff-4418-856a-a715b3d101df-b2c15881/relevance/1
Chen et al.
3

research constituents. The methods for science mapping
generally consist of co-citation analysis, bibliographic
coupling, co-word analysis, and co-authorship analysis.10,11
In addition to the typical science mapping process, some
enrichments are employed, such as the PageRank algorithm
and betweenness and closeness centrality. These approaches
aid in further delineating science mapping results by ana-
lysing knowledge clusters in each ﬁeld.
Bibliometric data
In brief, bibliometric data is regarded as a statistical form of
data derived from academic publications, providing a
quantitative perspective on the academic literature.12,13 It
sheds light on fundamental information of academic liter-
ature, depicts various attributes, and identiﬁes the ﬂow of
knowledge within a speciﬁc ﬁeld over time through the
analysis of data obtained from scientiﬁc databases such as
publication year,14 journals,15 citation count,16 keywords,
authors17 and location of institutions, leading to a com-
prehensive understanding of the knowledge development.18
As in Table 2, most bibliometric research studies (ac-
counting for 70.2% of 37 selected papers) prefer analysing
publication years, citation counts and keywords. Firstly,
publication years provide insight into the historical devel-
opment of a knowledge domain, allowing readers to identify
key milestones, trends, and changes over time. This in-
formation can help researchers understand how the research
Figure 2. Distribution of the selected papers over prestige journals.
Figure 1. The inclusion-exclusion ﬂowchart of the review protocol.
4
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

area has evolved and identify important gaps or emerging
research areas. Secondly, citation counts indicate the impact
and inﬂuence of individual papers and authors in a speciﬁc
research area. Citation analysis can be applied to identify the
most inﬂuential papers and authors and assess the level of
agreement or controversy within the ﬁeld. High citation
counts may also indicate areas where further research is
needed to clarify or extend existing ﬁndings. Thirdly,
keywords are important for identifying and categorising
papers within a speciﬁc research area. Subsequently,
common themes and gaps in the extant literature can be
identiﬁed. Some hints of the future development of the
research domain can be discovered by combining with the
citation analysis.
Science mapping analysis
Science mapping can essentially be divided into four
phases: selection of bibliometric methods, construction of
matrices, measurement of similarities, and post-hoc anal-
ysis, as shown in Figure 3. Regarding the science mapping
methods, four methods, co-citation, bibliographic coupling,
co-authorship, and co-word analyses, are applied in the
selected research studies, as shown in Table 3. Among the
above four methods, co-citation was the most commonly
used, accounting for 59.4% of the pool. This method is
useful for identifying publications that have received
considerable attention in the past and for identifying pub-
lications frequently cited in a particular research area. It is
also worth noting that co-word analysis was used exten-
sively in 11 articles. On the other hand, bibliographic
coupling and co-authorship were only utilised to a limited
extent in the selected publications.
Moreover, various software, including VOSviewer, Cite-
space, Bibexcel, Bibliometrix-R and Sitkis, were applied to
perform bibliometric analysis on data extracted from scientiﬁc
databases.19 To fully discover the mechanism behind the
bibliometric analysis, the generic process to achieve the above
science mapping methods is illustrated as follows:
In science mapping, a central task is to investigate
correlation patterns among bibliometric objects, such as
authors, references and keywords. To this end, in terms of
publications and bibliometric objects taken together, an
m×n occurrence matrix O is expressed as in equation (1),20
where oij is the Boolean value, and the indexes i 2 ½1, m and
j 2 ½1, n denotes the research documents and evaluation
objects considered in the bibliometric analysis. Therefore,
the occurrence of the selected m documents in terms of a
speciﬁc evaluation dimension can be formulated.
O ¼
2
4
o11
/
o1n
«
1
«
om1
/
omn
3
5
(1)
Speciﬁcally, in the co-citation analysis, the evaluation
objects (i.e. the index j 2 ½1, n) refer to the union set of ref-
erence items, that is cited papers, of the considered research
documents. In contrast, the transpose of a correlation matrix for
the co-citation analysis is considered for the bibliographic
coupling analysis. In other words, while co-citation analysis
measures the similarity between two cited reference papers,
bibliographic coupling measures similarity based on the ref-
erences’ overlap. In the co-word analysis, the evaluation
objects refer to the union set of authors’ keywords in the
publication dataset. Lastly, in the co-authorship analysis, the
evaluation objects denote the union set of authors who con-
tributed to the particular research domain.
Based on the above occurrence matrix O, a co-occurrence
matrix C is constructed, which is a symmetric non-negative
n×n matrix to indicate the sum of the occurrence between
evaluation objects, as in equation (2). Also, ep and eq are two
elementary vectors, where pth and qth positions in ep and eq
are zero. When p¼q, the total frequencies of each evaluation
object from all the publication documents can be determined.
C ¼

cpqj"p, q 2 ½1, n

, where cpq ¼

Oep
T∙Oeq
(2)
For the similarity calculation,21–23 four similarity mea-
sures are frequently used in the bibliometric analysis,
namely (i) association strength, (ii) cosine similarity, (iii)
inclusion similarity, and (iv) Jaccard similarity.
Firstly, the association strength between two evaluation
objects can be quantiﬁed by the ratio of the observed co-
Table 2. Areas and usage of bibliometric data.
Area
Publication code
Usage(%)
Publication year
J2, J4, J5, J6, J7, J8, J9, J10, J11, J12, J14, J15, J16, J18, J20, J21, J22, J23, J26, J27, J29, J30, J32, J34, J36, J37 70.2
Journals
J2, J4, J5, J6, J10, J11, J18, J25, J26, J29, J30, J33, J36
35.1
Citation count
J2, J4, J5, J7, J9, J11, J12, J13, J17 J23, J24, J26, J27, J28, J29, J33, J34
46.0
Keywords
J1, J2, J5, J7, J9, J10, J11, J13, J18, J19, J23, J25, J33
35.1
Authors
J5, J6, J7, J9, J10, J11, J18, J24, J29, J34
27.0
Institution
(location)
J5, J7, J8, J10, J11, J13, J18, J29, J36, J37
27.0
Remark: The code J1 to J37 can be referred to Appendix 1 for details
Chen et al.
5

occurrence with the total occurrences, assuming the sta-
tistical independence as in equation (3).
Sasso ¼
cpq
cpp∙cqq
(3)
Secondly, cosine similarity is another measure for the
bibliometric analysis, which is calculated as the ratio of the
observed co-occurrence with the geometric mean of total
occurrences as in equation (4).
Figure 3. The framework of the science mapping process.
Table 3. Areas and usage of the science mapping methods.
Method
Publication code
Usage(%)
Co-citation
J1, J3, J4, J5, J7, J8, J9, J12, J13, J14, J18, J19, J20, J21, J22, J28, J29, J30, J32, J33, J35, J36
59.4
Bibliographic coupling
J9, J14, J16, J28, J30, J36
16.2
Co-authorship
J6, J9, J18, J23, J30
13.5
Co-word
J1, J3, J9, J10, J13, J18, J21, J30, J31, J34, J36
29.7
Remark: The code J1 to J37 can be referred to in Appendix 1 for details
6
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

Scos ¼
cpq
ﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃﬃ
cpp∙cqq
p
(4)
Thirdly, the inclusion similarity is calculated by the
ratio between the observed co-occurrence and the
minimum value of the occurrences in p and q as in
equation (5).
Sinc ¼
cpq
min

cpp, cqq

(5)
Lastly, the Jaccard index is computed by the ratio be-
tween the observed co-occurrence and the total occurrences
in p and q without the co-occurrence scenarios as in
equation (6).
SJaccard ¼
cpq
cpp þ cqq  cpq
(6)
Furthermore, the generalised similarity measure was
proposed as in equation (7) for evaluating the similarity
between two evaluation objects p and q, where α2Rnf0g
denotes the parameter to drive different similarity measures.
As a result, the co-occurrence behaviour can be analysed by
selecting the most appropriate similarity measures, while
the science mapping results can be comprehensively
compared and validated.
Sg ¼
2
1
αcpq

cα
pp þ cα
pp
1
α
(7)
Post-hoc analysis
The process of science mapping is considered uniﬁed and
complete once the similarity evaluation of scientiﬁc articles is
conducted. The science mapping results can be visualised to
identify the relationship between articles and the topics of the
intellectual structure. According to the selected 37 relevant
publications, ﬁve additional techniques are summarised to
facilitate the post-hoc analysis of science mapping, namely (i)
data clustering, (ii) PageRank algorithm, (iii) evolution anal-
ysis, (iv) strategic graph analysis and (v) network centrality.
Firstly, data clustering has become a critical research
ﬁeld in science mapping analysis, receiving increasing at-
tention from scholars and research organisations.24 Most top
publications in our dataset refer to this post-hoc technique,
which commonly becomes the source of science mapping
visualisation. Clustering in science mapping refers to
grouping similar objects together, which is a helpful
technique in science mapping to identify clusters of related
research areas, topics and themes within a scientiﬁc domain,
as well as potential collaborations and partnerships among
researchers. The mechanism of the data clustering is to
minimise a weighted sum of squared Euclidean distances
between all pairs of items through an optimisation process.
In J18,13 the analysis reveals the disruption risks within the
supply chain. It illustrates the co-occurrence network of the
author’s indexed keywords about the supply chain dis-
ruption (SCD) ﬁeld from 1310 publications. In J13,11 four
network clusters based on co-citation are formulated,
strictly related to these three phases of blockchain devel-
opment from 2233 selected publications.
Secondly, PageRank is a ranking algorithm originally
developed and used in search engines to rank web pages to
provide a better search engine experience.25 Using the
PageRank algorithm, a score corresponding to the principal
eigenvector of the normalised matrix is assigned based on
the number and quality of incoming links. Science mapping
implies that a document frequently co-mentioned with other
important documents in the network receives a higher
PageRank score, signifying its greater centrality and im-
portance in the ﬁeld. Prestige studies can be extracted within
the research ﬁeld.26 In J9,10 the ten most prestigious articles
from each cluster were examined after co-citation analysis,
and the primary insights and objectives of each reviewed
article were thus derived.
Thirdly, evolution analysis is a dynamic analysis tech-
nique used in science mapping to investigate the changes
and trends of a speciﬁc research domain over time.24 Re-
searchers commonly use this technique to identify trends
and provide academic insights for deriving future agendas.
Moreover, evolution analysis can assist researchers in
making informed decisions about funding, collaboration,
and publication strategies based on a comprehensive un-
derstanding of the current state and trajectory of the research
domain. In J29,27 the evolution of co-citation in quantitative
models for managing supply chain risks was conducted,
which indicates that the supply chain risk management at
the design, tactical and operational planning levels, as well
as demand and supply forecasting, appeared early and
evolved quickly over the last two decades. Sourcing and
supply uncertainty modelling with related case studies
emerged and have evolved quite rapidly.
Fourthly, the thematic map was developed to analyse
further the science mapping results, which were obtained
and plotted according to centrality and density indices.
Some researchers have proposed a framework for catego-
rising scientiﬁc publications based on their centrality and
density in the science mapping network.28 Thematic maps
commonly identify articles and classify them into four main
categories: (i) motor themes (high centrality and high
density), (ii) basic themes (high centrality and low density),
(iii) emerging/disappearing themes (low centrality and low
density), and (iv) specialised themes (low centrality and
high density). Research trends, clusters, and gaps can be
effectively identiﬁed using thematic maps. In J13,11 eight
clusters were identiﬁed and classiﬁed into four main cat-
egories related to co-occurring keywords about distributed
Chen et al.
7

ledgers and decentralisation technologies of blockchain. At
the same time, potential collaborators and funders could
also be identiﬁed to facilitate future research planning and
development.
Lastly, regarding network centrality, betweenness cen-
trality is a measure of the degree to which other nodes
depend on a speciﬁc node, hence, a measure of potential
control. Simply speaking, betweenness centrality measures
the extent to which a particular node lies on the shortest
route connecting other nodes, with a higher betweenness
centrality value indicating a node’s greater inﬂuence.29
Closeness centrality, on the other hand, can be in-
terpreted as a measure of access efﬁciency or independence
from potential control by intermediaries. Essentially, a
node’s closeness centrality is deﬁned as the inverse of the
average length of the shortest routes to/from all other nodes
in the network, with greater closeness centrality indicating
more relatedness to other nodes.30,31 Both of these indi-
cators assist researchers in identifying additional details and
relationships based on the science mapping results. In J11,12
co-occurrence analysis was used to apply betweenness
centrality and closeness centrality to uncover additional
relationships between author-deﬁned keywords network
analysis.
Recent advances in text mining for the
bibliometric analysis
Recent advances in text mining and natural language
process (NLP) techniques enable further possibilities to
enhance bibliometric analysis. This section discusses and
maps the essential text mining approaches to the biblio-
metric analysis to derive the next-generation bibliometric
research.
Overview of text mining techniques
This section describes ﬁve major functions of the text
mining algorithms, including information extraction, text/
document clustering, topic modelling, text summarisation
and sentiment analysis.
Information extraction. Information extraction is a subﬁeld of
text mining that automatically extracts structured infor-
mation from unstructured or semi-structured text. The
primary objective of information extraction is to identify
speciﬁc pieces of information, such as entities, relation-
ships, events, and attributes, from a corpus of text and
represent them in a structured format easily understandable
by researchers and computers. Information extraction typ-
ically involves four fundamental processes, namely entity
extraction, relationship extraction, event extraction, and
attribute extraction. Entity extraction aims to identify and
categorise named entities in the text, such as people, or-
ganisations, locations, and other entities.32 Relationship
extraction, on the other hand, aims to identify the rela-
tionships between the entities deﬁned in the text. Event
extraction identiﬁes events or actions described in the text,
including their participants, locations, and time frames. In
contrast, attribute extraction involves extracting speciﬁc
attributes or properties of objects, such as their age, gender,
occupation, or other relevant attributes. Each type of in-
formation extraction involves characteristic identiﬁcation
processes, such as part-of-speech (POS) tagging for entity
extraction, relationship dependency parsing for relationship
extraction, event trigger identiﬁcation, argument identiﬁ-
cation, and attribute identiﬁcation for event and attribute
extraction. Several techniques and approaches can be used
for information extraction, including rule-based systems,
statistical methods, and machine learning algorithms.33
Rule-based systems use a set of handcrafted rules to
identify patterns in text and extract relevant information,
while statistical methods rely on probabilistic models to
identify patterns in the data.
Text/document clustering. Text/document clustering is a
well-established method for systematically grouping similar
objects into various clusters, and it is also applicable to
textual data from documents. Considering the following
characteristics of document representation.34 Representing
text poses unique challenges due to its high dimensionality
and sparsity. The lexicon used in a given dataset may
contain many terms, while individual documents may only
contain a small subset. Even with a large lexicon, words
tend to be correlated, implying that the number of concepts
in the data is considerably smaller than the feature space.
This necessitates carefully designing clustering algorithms
that can account for these correlations.
Moreover, given the wide variation in the number of
words across different documents, it is essential to nor-
malise the document representations appropriately during
the clustering process. After selecting and extracting rele-
vant features from the textual data, such as word frequency
term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF),35
effective clustering requires normalising these features in
terms of their relative frequency of presence in the docu-
ment and over the entire collection. Finally, different al-
gorithms can be applied for text clusterings, such as k-
means clustering,36 hierarchical clustering, and density-
based clustering, to supplement the science mapping results.
Topic modelling. Topic modelling is a technique used in text
mining to automatically identify hidden topics and patterns
from a collection of documents. The goal is to discover the
hidden semantic structure in a text corpus by grouping
words that frequently co-occur across the documents.37
Each document is assigned to the topics with different
8
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

weights, which specify both the degree of membership and
the coordinates of the document set, after learning and
preparing the text data for analysis, removing stop words,
stemming or lemmatising the words, and converting the text
into a numerical format that can be analysed. Topic mod-
elling algorithm is then applied to extract the hidden topics.
Latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) and Non-negative Matrix
Factorization (NMF) are commonly used algorithms. In the
LDA, it is assumed that each document is a mixture of
several topics, and each topic is a distribution of words, in
which Bayesian inference is applied to estimate the topic
distributions and the word distributions for each topic.38
The use of NMF involves factorising a matrix of word
frequencies into a product of two matrices, one representing
the data’s topic structure. The input matrix is typically a
document-term frequency matrix, and the resulting factor
matrices can then be used to represent each document as a
linear combination of a small number of topics or latent
features, which can be interpreted as clusters of related
terms. Once the topic model in a ﬁeld or cross-ﬁled has been
learned, it can be used for various applications such as
document
comprehension,
recommendation,
and
summarisation.39
Text summarisation. Text summarisation generates a shorter
version of a given text while retaining its most important
information. The goal of text summarisation is to make the
content of a text more easily and quickly accessible by
reducing the amount of information that the reader needs to
process.40 There are two main approaches to text summa-
risation:
extraction-based
and
abstraction-based.41
Extraction-based summarisation involves identifying and
extracting the most important sentences or phrases in a text
to create a summary. This approach relies on statistical and
linguistic techniques to identify and rank key sentences or
phrases based on their importance. For the output of the
extractive summarisation, target sentences are integrated as
the output.
On the other hand, Abstraction-based summarisation
involves creating a summary that is not simply a selection of
existing text but rather a new text that conveys the same
information as the original text but in a more concise form.
This approach uses natural language generation techniques
to create a more human-like summary. The generic pro-
cesses of text summarisation involve text representation,
sentence extraction, and sentence fusion. For the output of
the abstractive summarisation, the selected sentences may
need to be combined and fused to generate a coherent
summary, which can be supported by natural language
generation, encoder-decoder models, attention mechanisms,
transformer models, and reinforcement learning.
Sentiment analysis. Sentiment analysis is the process of
identifying and extracting subjective information from text
data to determine the emotional tone of the text, whether it
is positive, negative, or neutral, expressed by the writer
towards a particular topic or entity.42 Sentiment analysis
can be performed at various levels of granularity, ranging
from individual words and phrases to entire documents.
Feature extraction and sentiment classiﬁcation are two
core compositions of sentiment analysis. Feature extrac-
tion involves identifying and extracting relevant features
from the pre-processed text data, like speciﬁc words or
phrases, parts of publications, syntactic structures, and
other linguistic features.43 Sentiment classiﬁcation uses
rule-based systems, machine learning algorithms, and deep
learning models to classify text automatically as positive,
negative, or neutral in sentiment. The rule-based approach
to sentiment analysis involves using pre-deﬁned rules or
lists of words with associated sentiment scores to deter-
mine the sentiment of the text. This approach assumes that
certain words or phrases are more likely to be associated
with positive or negative sentiment; for example, words
such as ‘happy’, ‘joyful’, and ‘excited’ indicate positive
sentiment scores, while words such as ‘sad’, ‘angry’, and
‘frustrated’ indicate negative sentiment scores. In artiﬁcial
intelligence, the machine learning approach entails uti-
lising neural network algorithms to learn from data and
detect sentiment patterns in textual data.24 Typically, these
algorithms are trained on a labelled text data dataset with
known sentiment scores. By applying statistical models,
the algorithms classify newly encountered text data into
positive, negative, or neutral sentiment categories. Al-
though this approach is more intricate and necessitates
greater computational resources and data, it generally
yields higher accuracy.44
Future research agenda
According to the extant literature, the research status quo
related to the integration of text mining and bibliometric
analysis is summarised in Table 4 to hint at future research
opportunities. Consequently, the domain of bibliometric
research can be further evolved to support the development of
Table 4. Mapping results of the text mining and bibliometric
analysis.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
Co-citation
3
3
ⵔ
ⵔ
ⵔ
Bibliographic coupling
3
3
ⵔ
ⵔ
ⵔ
Co-authorship
3
3
ⵔ
7
7
Co-occurrence
3
3
ⵔ
7
7
Remark: (a) Information extraction, (b) text/document clustering, (c) topic
modelling, (d) text summarisation, (e) sentiment analysis;3: Complete
exploration, ⵔ: No/limited exploration, 7: Not applicable
Chen et al.
9

future research agendas. The future research applications of
text mining in bibliometric analysis are shown in Figure 4.
Information extraction and science mapping
Information extraction (IE) aims to extract speciﬁc infor-
mation from a large corpus of text data, such as named
entities, relations between entities, and events. IE can
identify entities such as people, organisations, concepts, or
keywords from text data,45 which can then be used as input
for co-occurrence analysis. Important topics or themes in a
corpus can be revealed by identifying frequent co-occurring
entities. Another approach combines IE and co-occurrence
analysis by comparing the results of both techniques. By
doing so, similarities and gaps between important concepts
and their relationships identiﬁed by IE and co-occurrence
analysis can be identiﬁed. This comparison could validate
the importance of the identiﬁed concepts and relationships
and provide additional insights into the ﬁeld of interest. For
instance, if certain keywords extracted from the full text of
publications using IE techniques are not frequently co-
occurring in the science mapping analysis, this may sug-
gest that they are less important in the ﬁeld Figure 5.
On the other hand, if certain terms frequently co-occur in
the science mapping analysis but are not identiﬁed as en-
tities
using
IE,
this
may
indicate
that
they
are
Figure 4. Number of selected papers over the publication years.
Figure 5. The applications of text mining in science mapping.
10
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

underrepresented in the literature and require further in-
vestigation. Therefore, IE and co-occurrence analysis can be
combined to understand a given corpus comprehensively.
This approach provides a valuable tool for researchers to
identify
important
concepts,
their
relationships,
and
knowledge gaps, aiding decision-making, hypothesis gen-
eration, and future research directions.
Text/document clustering and science mapping
In the context of bibliometric research, there may be var-
iations in the approaches used in science mapping and text/
document clustering, depending on the analysis source and
speciﬁc techniques applied to the data source, input and
output representation, and dimensionality.14,46 Typically,
science mapping clustering entails pre-processing metadata
with multiple ﬁelds of publications, authors, or keywords,
resulting in science mapping clusters that are organised into
a network. On the other hand, text/document clustering
involves pre-processing the text to create a vector repre-
sentation of the documents with multiple features or terms,
producing clusters of documents based on their similarity.
Comparing these two approaches can offer valuable insights
into the relationship between the topics discussed in speciﬁc
ﬁelds and the language employed to discuss those topics.
This comparison can identify ﬁelds where the terminology
used may be inconsistent and ambiguous, where there may
be disconnects between the key concepts identiﬁed by the
two clustering methods, and where they may complement
each other. For example, if science mapping and text/
document clustering yield similar results, it may indicate
that the underlying intellectual structure of the ﬁeld is well
captured. Conversely, if the two methods yield different
results, it may suggest that one or both methods may need
reﬁnement and re-evaluation. Thus, a latent research
method is to compare the clustering results obtained from
science mapping and text/document clustering to identify
similarities and gaps between them and provide insights into
potential areas for improvement in research methodologies.
Text summarisation and science mapping
Science mapping aims to examine a large amount of scientiﬁc
literature to reveal trends, patterns, and connections between
various research ﬁelds. However, these results can be intricate
and challenging to interpret, especially for those not experts in
the ﬁeld.5 Text summarisation can be utilised in science
mapping to concisely summarise key insights and ﬁndings
relevant to co-citation analysis, bibliographic coupling, and co-
occurrence analysis. As mentioned above, previous studies
have classiﬁed text summarisation into two main approaches:
extractive-based summarisation and abstraction-based sum-
marisation.47 In the case of co-citation and bibliographic
coupling analysis, information extraction could be applied by
ﬁrst extracting the abstracts, introductions, conclusions, or full
texts of the most frequently cited publications from the science
mapping dataset and reference list. Then, text summarisation
algorithms could be employed to identify the most relevant
sentences or phrases, which could be used to create summative
paragraphs for science mapping analysis documents and ob-
jects. In the case of co-word analysis, the keywords or phrases
from the results could be selected and combined to summarise
the main themes and trends in the analysed ﬁeld. Another
approach to achieving summarisation is abstraction-based
summarisation. In the case of co-citation and bibliographic
coupling analysis, this approach could be implemented by
using natural language processing techniques to recognise the
most crucial concepts and relationships between all the cited
publications in the science mapping dataset and reference list.
A summary could then be generated based on these concepts
and relationships. In the case of co-word analysis, a summary
could be generated by synthesising new sentences that de-
scribe the co-occurrence analysis results, capturing the main
themes and trends.
Moreover, the advent of generative AI, particularly large
language models (LLMs) like GPT and Claude, has revo-
lutionised text summarisation within science mapping.
LLMs can process extensive corpora of scientiﬁc literature,
identify salient points, and generate coherent, comprehen-
sive summarisations. Unlike traditional extractive tech-
niques, LLMs can generate novel text that captures the
essence of the original content without merely extracting
parts of it. This approach makes them especially suitable for
abstractive summarisation, where understanding and con-
veying complex ideas in new ways is key. Moreover, LLMs
can be ﬁne-tuned to the domain-speciﬁc language of sci-
entiﬁc discourse, thus enhancing their ability to interpret
and articulate the nuances of academic research. For co-
citation and bibliographic coupling, LLMs can discern the
subtleties in the relationships between documents, offering a
summary and a conceptual mapping of the scientiﬁc terrain.
They can recognise emergent patterns, track the evolution of
themes over time, and detect nascent areas of interest before
they become prominent. LLMs take on an even more
creative role in the realm of co-word analysis. They can
weave keywords and phrases identiﬁed in co-occurrence
analysis into a cohesive narrative revealing prevailing di-
alogues within a ﬁeld. The AI does not merely list the terms
but contextualises them within the broader research land-
scape, offering a narrative that can guide researchers
through the thematic structures of their domain.
Topic modelling and science mapping
In contrast to text summarisation, which aims to reduce the
content of documents while preserving important infor-
mation, topic modelling aims to uncover the latent themes
within a collection of documents.48 Once the science
Chen et al.
11

mapping results are obtained, topic modelling techniques
can be deployed to identify the underlying topics or themes
within the network. This approach involves identifying
groups of publication datasets or reference lists that are
frequently co-cited together and assigning them to a topic or
theme based on the words used in those papers’ titles,
abstracts, or full texts. The resulting topic model can pro-
vide valuable insights into the key concepts and ideas
driving research in publication datasets and the relationships
between different research ﬁelds and sub-ﬁelds. In the case
of co-word analysis, the input data would consist of co-word
results, and applying topic modelling on this co-word
matrix can help identify groups of keywords that fre-
quently co-occur together, which may indicate underlying
topics or themes within the documents’ keywords.
Furthermore, topic modelling can identify words that act
as “bridge words” or “pivot words” between different topics
or themes in documents. These words connect multiple
topics or themes and can be useful in identifying the re-
lationships between different research areas based on the
science mapping patterns of scientiﬁc publications. Science
mapping can identify the key topics and research areas
linked together by identifying frequently occurring bridge
words from different research ﬁelds.
Text sentiment and science mapping
Sentiment analysis is an important aspect of text analysis that
aims to determine the polarity of the sentiment expressed in a
text, whether positive, negative, or neutral. Beyond the ex-
isting research, sentiment analysis can also be used to infer
whether a particular topic is outdated or no longer relevant
based on the sentiment expressed in recent texts.49 Combining
sentiment analysis with science mapping can provide valuable
insights into the relevance and popularity of different research
ﬁelds and topics. By applying sentiment analysis to the science
mapping result, researchers can determine the sentiment of the
words or phrases used in the titles, abstracts, conclusions, or
full text of the relevant ﬁelds and topics identiﬁed through co-
citation, bibliographic coupling, and co-word analysis. This
way can help identify shifts in sentiment over time, indicating
changes in the relevance or popularity of certain topics. This
information can be used to create indexes that guide future
academic exploration and determine whether a particular ﬁeld
or topic is promising or outdated. Therefore, combining
sentiment analysis with science mapping can provide a more
comprehensive understanding of the trends, patterns, and re-
lationships within a particular ﬁeld of research.
Conclusion
This study discusses using bibliometrics and science
mapping analysis in contemporary research. In order to
investigate the status quo, 37 high-quality publications from
18 prestige journals were selected for analysis, in which the
publication year and citation are the most commonly used
bibliometric metadata. Moreover, co-citation is the most
frequently used science mapping technique, followed by the
co-word analysis. The workﬂow for science mapping in-
volves data collection and pre-processing, construction of
the occurrence and co-occurrence matrix for similarity
calculation, and enhancements to extract insights based on
the similarities. Furthermore, this study also introduces ﬁve
text mining techniques, including text summarisation,
sentiment analysis, topic modelling, information extraction,
and text/document clustering, which can be combined with
science mapping for greater insights. Last but not least, the
future opportunities to integrate text mining and biblio-
metric analysis are outlined through mapping their recent
development.
Acknowledgements
The authors would like to thank the programme of Master of Science
in Knowledge and Technology Management, Department of Indus-
trial and Systems Engineering, The Hong Kong Polytechnic Uni-
versity, for inspiring the development of this study. We also want to
acknowledge the support from The Hong Kong Polytechnic Uni-
versity for the project (Project Code: G-UARK), and a matching grant
from the University Grants Committee of the Hong Kong Special
Administrative Region, China (RMGS Project Acc. No.: 700043).
The authors also thank the Department of Supply Chain and Infor-
mation Management at the Hang Seng University of Hong Kong for
supporting the project. Special thanks go to Mr Thomas Chen and
Miss Winsome Hui for their support provided.
Declaration of conﬂicting interests
The author(s) declared no potential conﬂicts of interest with re-
spect to the research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
ORCID iD
CH Wu https://orcid.org/0000-0003-1259-4048
References
1. Ioannidis JPA. September 2022 data-update for ‘Updated
science-wide author databases of standardised citation in-
dicators’. Amsterdam: Elsevier. Epub ahead of print 10
October 2022 DOI: 10.17632/btchxktzyw.4
2. de Oliveira OJ, da Silva FF, Juliani F, et al. Bibliometric
method for mapping the state-of-the-art and identifying
research gaps and trends in literature: an essential instrument
to support the development of scientiﬁc projects. In: Scien-
tometrics recent advances. London, UK: IntechOpen, 2019.
3. Gaviria-Marin
M,
Merigó
JM
and
Baier-Fuentes
H.
Knowledge management: a global examination based on
bibliometric analysis. Technol Forecast Soc Change 2019;
140: 194–220.
12
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

4. Stuart D. Open bibliometrics and undiscovered public
knowledge. Online Inf Rev 2018; 42: 412–418.
5. Donthu N, Kumar S, Mukherjee D, et al. How to conduct a
bibliometric analysis: an overview and guidelines. J Bus Res
2021; 133: 285–296.
6. Clarivate. access.clarivate.com, https://www.webofscience.com/
7. Journal Citation Reports. jcr.clarivate.com, https://jcr.
clarivate.com/jcr/home?Init=Yes&SrcApp=IC2LS
8. Hair J, Wood B and Sharland A. Toward a better under-
standing of the Australian Business Deans Council (ABDC)
list and its rankings. Int J Educ Manag 2019; 33: 644–650.
9. Chartered R. Association of business schools, https://
charteredabs.org/academic-journal-guide-2021-view/.
10. Tandon A, Kaur P, M¨antym¨aki M, et al. Blockchain appli-
cations in management: a bibliometric analysis and literature
review. Technol Forecast Soc Change 2021; 166: 120649.
11. Centobelli P, Cerchione R, Esposito E, et al. Surﬁng block-
chain wave, or drowning? Shaping the future of distributed
ledgers and decentralised technologies. Technol Forecast Soc
Change 2021; 165: 120463.
12. Kumar S, Sahoo S, Lim WM, et al. Fuzzy-set qualitative
comparative analysis (fsQCA) in business and management
research: a contemporary overview. Technol Forecast Soc
Change 2022; 178: 121599.
13. Xu S, Zhang X, Feng L, et al. Disruption risks in supply chain
management: a literature review based on bibliometric
analysis. Int J Prod Res 2020; 58: 3508–3526.
14. Ben-Daya M, Hassini E and Bahroun Z. Internet of things and
supply chain management: a literature review. Int J Prod Res
2017; 57: 4719–4742.
15. Chen L, Zhao X, Tang O, et al. Supply chain collaboration for
sustainability: a literature review and future research agenda.
Int J Prod Econ 2017; 194: 73–87.
16. Chen K, Zhang Y and Fu X. International research collab-
oration: an emerging domain of innovation studies? Res Pol
2019; 48: 149–168.
17. Machado CG, Winroth MP and Ribeiro da Silva EHD.
Sustainable manufacturing in Industry 4.0: an emerging
research agenda. Int J Prod Res 2019; 58: 1–23.
18. Ninkov A, Frank JR and Maggio LA. Bibliometrics: methods
for studying academic publishing. Perspectives on medical
education 2022; 11(3): 173–176.
19. Cobo MJ, López-Herrera AG, Herrera-Viedma E, et al.
Science mapping software tools: review, analysis, and co-
operative study among tools. J Am Soc Inf Sci Technol 2011;
62: 1382–1402.
20. Sen SK and Gan Sk SK. A mathematical extension of the idea
of bibliographic coupling and its applications. Annals of
Library Science and Documentation 1983; 30(2): 78–82.
21. B¨orner K, Chen C and Boyack KW. Visualising knowledge
domains. Annu Rev Inf Sci Technol 2005; 37: 179–255.
22. Eck NJvan and Waltman L. How to normalise co-occurrence
data? An analysis of some well-known similarity measures. J
Am Soc Inf Sci Technol 2009; 60: 1635–1651.
23. Fu J and Ding J. Comparison of visualization principles between
Citespace and VOSviewer. J Libr Inf Sci in Agri; 31(10): 31–37.
DOI: 10.13998/j.cnki.issn1002-1248.2019.10.19-0776
24. Song G, Wu J and Wang S. Text mining in management
research: a bibliometric analysis. Secur Commun Network
2021; 2021: 1–15.
25. Gleich DF. PageRank beyond the web. SIAM Rev 2015; 57:
321–363.
26. Ma N, Guan J and Zhao Y. Bringing PageRank to the citation
analysis. Inf Process Manag 2008; 44: 800–810.
27. Fahimnia B, Tang CS, Davarzani H, et al. Quantitative models
for managing supply chain risks: a review. Eur J Oper Res
2015; 247: 1–15.
28. Fosso Wamba S, Bawack RE, Guthrie C, et al. Are we preparing
for a good AI society? A bibliometric review and research
agenda. Technol Forecast Soc Change 2021; 164: 120482.
29. Abbasi A, Hossain L and Leydesdorff L. Betweenness
centrality as a driver of preferential attachment in the evo-
lution of research collaboration networks. Journal of In-
formetrics 2012; 6: 403–412.
30. Shiau WL, Wang X, Zheng F, et al. Cognition and emotion in
the information systems ﬁeld: a review of twenty-four years of
literature. Enterprise Inf Syst 2022; 16(6): 1992675.
31. Brandes U, Borgatti SP and Freeman LC. Maintaining the
duality of closeness and betweenness centrality. Soc Network
2016; 44: 153–159.
32. Sirsat SR, Chavan DV and Deshpande DSP. Mining
knowledge from text repositories using information extrac-
tion: a review. Sadhana 2014; 39: 53–62.
33. Jain RK, Tumkur KR, Kuo T-T, et al. Weakly supervised
learning of biomedical information extraction from curated
data. BMC Bioinf; 17. DOI: 10.1186/s12859-015-0844-1
34. Aljaber B, Stokes N, Bailey J, et al. Document clustering of
scientiﬁc texts using citation contexts. Inf Retr 2009; 13: 101–131.
35. Lan F Research on text similarity measurement hybrid al-
gorithm with term semantic information and TF-IDF method.
Adv Multimed 2022; 2022: 1–11.
36. Volkan T, Turgay B and Ali C. An improved clustering al-
gorithm for text mining: multi-cluster spherical K-means. Int
Arab J Inf Technol; 13(1): 12–19.
37. Rashid J, Shah SMA and Irtaza A. Fuzzy topic modeling
approach for text mining over short text. Inf Process Manag
2019; 56: 102060.
38. Rana TA, Cheah Y-N and Letchmunan S. Topic modeling in
sentiment analysis: a systematic review. Journal of ICT
Research and Applications 2016; 10: 76–93.
39. Valdez D, Pickett AC and Goodson P. Topic modeling: latent
semantic analysis for the social sciences. Soc Sci Q 2018; 99:
1665–1679.
40. Dheer N and Kumar C. Automatic text summarization: a
detailed study. Int J Sci Res 2016; 5: 429–433.
41. Mohan MJ, Sunitha C, Ganesh A, et al. A study on ontology
based abstractive summarization. Proc Comput Sci 2016; 87:
32–37.
Chen et al.
13

42. Soleymani M, Garcia D, Jou B, et al. A survey of multimodal
sentiment analysis. Image Vis Comput 2017; 65: 3–14.
43. Cong G and Li C. Advanced data mining and applications Pt,
vol. 2. Heidelberg New York: Ny Dordrecht London Berlin
Springer, 2013.
44. Li N and Wu DD. Using text mining and sentiment analysis
for online forums hotspot detection and forecast. Decis
Support Syst 2010; 48: 354–368.
45. Mining text data. Berlin: Springer, 2014.
46. Hadi AS, Kaufman L and Rousseeuw PJ. Finding groups in
data: an introduction to cluster analysis. Technometrics 1992;
34: 111.
47. El-Kassas WS, Salama CR, Rafea AA, et al. Automatic text
summarisation: a comprehensive survey. Expert Syst Appl
2020; 165: 113679.
48. Qiang J, Qian Z, Li Y, et al. Short text topic modeling
techniques, applications, and performance: a survey. IEEE
Trans Knowl Data Eng 2020; 34: 1–1.
49. Nazir A, Rao Y, Wu L, et al. Issues and challenges of
aspect-based sentiment analysis: a comprehensive survey.
IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing 2022; 13:
845–863.
50. Fakhar Manesh M, Pellegrini MM, Marzi G, et al. Knowledge
management in the fourth industrial revolution: mapping the
literature and scoping future avenues. IEEE Trans Eng Manag
2020; 68: 1–12.
51. Leung XY, Sun J and Bai B. Bibliometrics of social media
research: a co-citation and co-word analysis. Int J Hospit
Manag 2017; 66: 35–45.
52. Cheng M. Sharing economy: a review and agenda for future
research. Int J Hospit Manag 2016; 57: 60–70.
53. Xu X, Chen X, Jia F, et al. Supply chain ﬁnance: a systematic
literature review and bibliometric analysis. Int J Prod Econ
2018; 204: 160–173.
54. Fahimnia B, Sarkis J and Davarzani H. Green supply chain
management: a review and bibliometric analysis. Int J Prod
Econ 2015; 162: 101–114.
55. Kaffash S, Nguyen AT and Zhu J. Big data algorithms and
applications in intelligent transportation system: a review
and bibliometric analysis. Int J Prod Econ 2021; 231:
107868.
56. Mora L, Deakin M and Reid A. Combining co-citation
clustering and text-based analysis to reveal the main devel-
opment paths of smart cities. Technol Forecast Soc Change
2019; 142: 56–69.
57. Carvalho MM, Fleury A and Lopes AP. An overview of the
literature on technology roadmapping (TRM): contributions
and trends. Technol Forecast Soc Change 2013; 80:
1418–1437.
58. Rotolo D, Hicks D and Martin B. What is an emerging
technology? Research Policy. 2015; 44(10): 1827–1843.
59. van der Have RP and Rubalcaba L. Social innovation
research: an emerging area of innovation studies? Res Pol
2016; 45: 1923–1935.
60. Wang J, Veugelers R and Stephan PE. Bias against novelty in
science: a cautionary tale for users of bibliometric indicators.
https://ssrn.com/abstract=2710572
61. Pournader M, Shi Y, Seuring S, et al. Blockchain applications
in supply chains, transport and logistics: a systematic review
of the literature. Int J Prod Res 2019; 58: 1–19.
62. Gomezelj DO. A systematic review of research on innovation
in hospitality and tourism. Int J Contemp Hospit Manag 2016;
28: 516–558.
63. Ali F, Park Olivia E, Kwon J, et al. 30 years of contemporary
hospitality management. Int J Contemp Hospit Manag 2019;
31: 2641–2665.
64. Kumar S, Sharma D, Rao S, et al. Past, present, and future of
sustainable ﬁnance: insights from big data analytics through
machine learning of scholarly research. Ann Oper Res. 2022;
2022. DOI: 10.1007/s10479-021-04410-8
65. Queiroz MM, Ivanov D, Dolgui A, et al. Impacts of epidemic
outbreaks on supply chains: mapping a research agenda amid the
COVID-19 pandemic through a structured literature review. Ann
Oper Res. 2022; 319(1). DOI: 10.1007/s10479-020-03685-7
66. Dabi´c M, Maley J, Dana L-P, et al. Pathways of SME inter-
nationalisation: a bibliometric and systematic review. Small
business Economics; 55(5). DOI: 10.1007/s11187-019-00181-6
67. Thom´e AMT, Scavarda LF and Scavarda AJ. Conducting
systematic literature review in operations management. Prod
Plann Control 2016; 27: 408–420.
68. Vogel B, Reichard RJ, Batistiˇc S, et al. A bibliometric
review of the leadership development ﬁeld: how we got
here, where we are, and where we are headed. Leader Q
2020; 32: 101381.
69. Koseoglu MA, Rahimi R, Okumus F, et al. Bibliometric
studies in tourism. Ann Tourism Res 2016; 61: 180–198.
70. Ferasso M, Beliaeva T, Kraus S, et al. Circular economy
business models: the state of research and avenues ahead. Bus
Strategy and the Env 2020; 29. DOI: 10.1002/bse.2554.
71. Rabetino R, Harmsen W, Kohtam¨aki M, et al. Structuring
servitisation-related research. Int J Oper Prod Manag 2018;
38: 350–371.
72. Randhawa K, Wilden R and Hohberger J. A bibliometric
review of open innovation: setting a research agenda. J Prod
Innovat Manag 2016; 33: 750–772.
73. Lim WM, Kumar S, Verma S, et al. Alexa, what do we know
about conversational commerce? Insights from a systematic lit-
erature review. Psychol Market; 39(6). DOI: 10.1002/mar.21654
74. Raghuram S, Hill NS, Gibbs JL, et al. Virtual work: bridging
research clusters. Acad Manag Ann 2019; 13: 308–341.
75. Mariani MM, Machado I, Magrelli V, et al. Artiﬁcial intel-
ligence in innovation research: a systematic review, con-
ceptual
framework,
and
future
research
directions.
Technovation 2023; 122: 102623.
76. Filippi E, Bann`o M and Trento S. Automation technologies
and their impact on employment: a review, synthesis and
future research agenda. Technol Forecast Soc Change 2023;
191: 122448.
14
International Journal of Engineering Business Management

Appendix
Appendix A.
The full list of the selected papers.
Code Article title
Ref
J1
Knowledge management in the fourth industrial revolution: Mapping the literature and scoping future avenues
50
J2
Bibliometrics of social media research: A co-citation and co-word analysis
51
J3
Sharing economy: A review and agenda for future research
52
J4
Supply chain ﬁnance: A systematic literature review and bibliometric analysis
53
J5
Green supply chain management: A review and bibliometric analysis
24
J6
Supply chain collaboration for sustainability: A literature review and future research agenda
54
J7
Big data algorithms and applications in intelligent transportation system: A review and bibliometric analysis
55
J8
Combining co-citation clustering and text-based analysis to reveal the main development paths of smart cities
56
J9
Blockchain applications in management: A bibliometric analysis and literature review
10
J10
Are we preparing for a good AI society? A bibliometric review and research agenda
28
J11
Fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis (fsQCA) in business and management research: A contemporary overview
12
J12
An overview of the literature on technology roadmapping (TRM): Contributions and trends
57
J13
Surﬁng blockchain wave, or drowning? Shaping the future of distributed ledgers and decentralised technologies
11
J14
International research collaboration: An emerging domain of innovation studies?
16
J15
What is an emerging technology?
58
J16
Social innovation research: An emerging area of innovation studies?
59
J17
Bias against novelty in science: A cautionary tale for users of bibliometric indicators
60
J18
Disruption risks in supply chain management: a Literature review based on bibliometric analysis
13
J19
Blockchain applications in supply chains, transport and logistics: a Systematic review of the literature
61
J20
Internet of things and supply chain management: a Literature review
14
J21
Sustainable manufacturing in industry 4.0: An emerging research agenda
17
J22
A systematic review of research on innovation in hospitality and tourism
62
J23
30 years of contemporary hospitality management uncovering the bibliometrics and topical trends
63
J24
Past, present, and future of sustainable ﬁnance: Insights from big data analytics through machine learning of scholarly research
64
J25
Impacts of epidemic outbreaks on supply chains: Mapping a research agenda amid the COVID-19 pandemic through a
structured literature review
65
J26
Pathways of SME internationalisation: a Bibliometric and systematic review
66
J27
Conducting systematic literature review in operations management
67
J28
A bibliometric review of the leadership development ﬁeld: How we got here, where we are, and where we are headed
68
J29
Quantitative models for managing supply chain risks: A review
27
J30
Bibliometric studies in tourism
69
J31
Circular economy business models: The state of research and avenues ahead
70
J32
Structuring servitisation-related research
71
J33
A bibliometric review of open innovation: Setting a research agenda
72
J34
Alexa, what do we know about conversational commerce? Insights from a systematic literature review
73
J35
Virtual work: Bridging research clusters
74
J36
Artiﬁcial intelligence in innovation research: A systematic review, conceptual framework, and future research directions
75
J37
Automation technologies and their impact on employment: A review, synthesis and future research agenda
76
Chen et al.
15
